---
layout: post
title: Portfolio
---

This will be the resting place for some of my work, eg published papers, systems built.


<strong>Publications</strong>
* <em>The Politecast Primitive for Low-Power Wireless.</em> ACM CCR 2011-April. Lundén, Marcus and Dunkels, Adam.

* <em>Inspirational Bits - Towards a Shared Understanding of the Digital Material.</em> CHI 2011. Sundström, Petra and Taylor, Alex and Grufberg, Katja and Wirström, Niklas and Solsona Belenguer, Jordi and Lundén, Marcus.

* <em>The LEGA: A Device for Leaving and Finding Tactile Traces.</em> TEI 2011. Jarmo Laaksolahti, Jakob Tholander, Anna Karlsson, Marcus Lundén, Jordi Solsona

* <em><a href=\"http://www.bithappens.se/resources/papers/Experiential%20artifacts%20as%20a%20design%20method%20for%20somaesthetic%20service%20development%20-%20UbiComp%2011%20WS%20-%20p33-sundstrom.pdf\">Experiential Artifacts as a Design Method for Somaesthetic Service Development.</a></em> Ubicomp 2011 Workshop paper. Sundström, Petra and Elsa Vaara and Solsona, Jordi and Wirström, Niklas and Lundén, Marcus and Laaksolahti, Jarmo and Waern, Annika and Höök, Kristina.

* <em>Immaterial Materials: Radio as a design material.</em> Jordi Solsona, Marcus Lundén, Petra Sundström and Jarmo Laaksolahti. TEI 2012.

* <em>Politecast - A New Communication Primitive for Wireless Sensor Networks.</em> Lundén, Marcus. Master thesis, KTH, Stockholm 2010.

* <em>Kommersialiseringsstöd för innovatörer.</em> Lundén, Marcus. BSSc thesis, Stockholm University.


<strong>Systems, demos and tech</strong>
* <em>JUMP</em> (BSc degree project); a system to encourage children with disabilities to become more physically active; a 4 sqm dance floor with pressure sensitive cells with LEDs. I designed the hardware (functionality, IC selection, PCB design) and assembled most of the electrical HW (10k+ solder points).

* <em>The Lega system</em>; I designed the network structure and functionality for an indoor localization system and mesh network, some HW design and wrote most of the software for infrastructure nodes, mobile devices and a number of utility nodes. Implemented and evaluated the Politecast primitive for coping with massive problems with overhearing.

* <em>RadioSound</em> (part of the Inspirational Bits paper); Uses two Sky-motes, one in test mode transmitting a carrier wave and a listener measuring the RSS on that freq. Outputs a sound with pitch proportional to the RSSI; used for conveying the physical properties of 2.4 GHz. Idea and implementation by me.



